The internet is essentially a network of networks; lower level plumbing that gets the zeros and ones from you to someone else and back. Applications on top of that are ultimately implemented
in software. Routers help relay your data information from point A to point B; we use a set of protocols to relay this information and one pair of the most common protocols is TCP/IP.

IP: internet protocol, standardizes how computers address one another (think of IP address as the from/to section on a letter). To send data (envelopes), we would think to put our IP address as
the "from" section, the recipient ip address as the "to" section, and send it off to the nearest router to be delivered.

DNS (domain name system): we use DNS to convert human readable URLs into IP addresses; DNS service given by your ISP.

TCP (transmission control protocol): when receiving the proverbial envelope, the server also examines it for a PORT number (a small integer the world has agreed will represent different internet
services). TCP also handles the process of transmitting/retransmitting data if it gets lost due to faulty conditions with the routers.

Demo: web browser makes request for image of cat to web server; web server parses hard drive for image of cat and places image into "envelope"; envelope contains IP address for to and from fields
as well as port numbers and instruction (sequence number) on how to reassemble image split in two (top half/bottom half).

DNS is what we begin with and TCP/IP deals with other things under the hood.


HTTP (hypertext transfer protocol): the web is an application on top of the internet. Note that TCP/IP governs what goes outside the envelopes, and HTTP governs what goes inside the envelopes.
HTTP supports two commands: GET (how a browser requests info from a server) and POST.

Implicit at the end of URLs is index.html; here is a sample request:
GET /index.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
...

Command line request
curl -I https://safetyschool.org

And here is a sample response:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: text/html (webpage)


You can view these requests and responses in most modern browsers' developer tools section, under network. Once we understand URL formats we can begin passing inputs to servers.

